[Music]
the tallest life-forms in the history of
Earth you ever wonder why people plants
and animals only reach a certain height
well the answer to that question is
straightforward
most of the Earth's inhabitants can't
grow too tall because of the pull of
gravity for example if you were to
double in size you'd become eight times
heavier and the force of gravity would
crush you
yet some life-forms manage to find a
loophole in this gravitational law
growing tall and proud let's have a look
at some of the Giants living on our
planet but before we kick off this list
be sure to subscribe to our channel and
hit that notification bell there now you
won't miss any of the daily updates on
the bright side of life
plants as you've probably noticed the
tallest life forms on our planet are
trees it makes perfect sense trees
pretty much have one goal in life to
spend all their energy on growing taller
than their neighbors and that's because
in the tree world that taller you are
the more sunlight you get and sunlight
is like food for plants so that means a
longer life but even among trees there
are several giants that put the rest to
shame the tallest of them are redwoods
aka Sequoia sempervirens
the record holder among these California
natives is a tree with its own name
Hyperion discovered in 2006 this guy is
so massive that you can't even see the
top the reason for that is it's
staggering height of 380 point 3 feet
that's taller than the Statue of Liberty
whose height is just 310 feet
[Music]
Hyperion has some siblings that are
shorter than itself yet are still taller
than Lady Liberty there's three hundred
and seventy four point three foot tall
Helios
370 1.2 foot tall Icarus and three
hundred and sixty three point four foot
tall Daedalus redwoods gets so tall
because they have plenty of time to grow
these trees have a lifespan of about 500
to 700 years yet some even get to
celebrate their mm birthday but if one
day you'd like to see these monumental
trees for yourself you might not be able
to their location is kept secret and
that's because unfortunately cases of
vandalism aren't as wear as you'd think
the second place medal for the world's
tallest tree species goes to the
Australian mountain ash known in the
scientific community as eucalyptus
Ramon's some experts are convinced that
if people didn't cut them down these
trees would grow even taller as for the
champion among them it goes to a tree
named Centurion this Australian native
is a whopping three hundred and twenty
seven point five feet tall this tree is
so famous that it even has its own
Facebook page
[Music]
animals while trees just spend their
energy basically sunbathing all the time
animals have a little bit more to do
they need energy to walk breed hunt feed
and stay warm but that doesn't mean they
can't go tall as well African bush
elephants often reach a shoulder height
of 13 feet but they pay for being so
tall with their weight which can get as
heavy as seven tons
imagine having to carry all that around
but the tallest living animal on earth
is the giraffe whose leg alone is taller
than the average human males grow up to
18 feet and females are a bit shorter at
around 14 feet tall calves baby giraffes
are called that too are an incredible 6
feet tall at birth and grow half an inch
or more a day but let's have a look at
the longest creatures as well perhaps if
we could position them vertically
they beat the giraffes record the
saltwater crocodile the largest of all
reptiles definitely could it can grow
almost 20 feet long and if the brown
bear stands on its hind legs its height
can reach 10 to 13 feet sure it doesn't
compete with the giraffe but this bear
would give the African bush elephant a
run for its money height wise of course
and when we dive into the oceans things
get really interesting since gravity
doesn't prevent sea creatures from
growing big and mighty they can get
utterly massive take the blue whale for
instance it can reach a length of almost
a hundred feet
their hearts are as big as a car and
their tongues weigh as much as a
full-grown elephant this makes the blue
whale the biggest creature on our planet
today large and in charge
but there is one sea creature that gives
the blue whale some competition in the
length Department and that's the lion's
mane jellyfish this guy has a relatively
small body but its tentacles
brace yourselves folks scientists have
recorded some of these gigantic jellies
with up to 1,200 tentacles that grow as
long as a hundred and twenty feet thanks
to its record-breaking appendages the
lion's mane jellyfish is the longest
creature on the planet
however some marine biologists disagree
with this claim they declare that if you
fully extend the saltwater bootlace worm
it can measure a hundred and eighty feet
from one end to the other so that's
basically a worm that's longer than
three entire buses and let's move on
before we all have nightmares shall we
prehistoric animals this all sounds cool
and impressive but no modern creature
can hold a candle to the monsters of
prehistoric times if we took all the
animals that have ever existed on this
planet both past and present the top 10
places on the list of the tallest
life-forms ever would belong to
dinosaurs as for the tallest of these
giant reptiles that would be the
sauropods they had a body structure like
no other with front legs that were
longer than the back ones they also had
incredibly long necks that allowed them
to reach the tops of the tallest trees
the tallest member of this already tall
family was the sauroposeidon fossil
records show that its height could reach
60 feet
humans so what about us where the humans
stand on this list of Earth's tallest
beings well we've got nothing on
prehistoric or sea life but we are
actually taller than eighty seven point
six percent of all the world's mammals
the country that produces the tallest
people on the planet is the Netherlands
the average height of both men and women
is six foot three Montenegro takes
second place with an average height of
six foot one among its population but of
course the human race also has its own
outstanding record breakers take John
Rogan for instance born in 1868 Rogan
had an unexplainable and sudden growth
spurt at the age of 13 as a full-grown
adult he towered at eight foot nine
inches tall
there's also Robert Wadlow who is still
the reigning champ of the tallest people
ever to have lived his nickname was the
Giant of Illinois and he stood at 8 foot
11 inches when Walla was just 8 years
old he was already 6 feet 2 inches and
169 pounds some other honorable mentions
of the tallest people in history were
John F Carroll at eight foot seven and a
half inches as well as vinyl Miller een
and Edouard Beaupre both towered over
others at eight foot three before you
envy these folks for their ability to
reach on top of any shelf or go to the
movies without anybody's head blocking
their view you should know that they
didn't have it so easy
all of them suffer from constant pain
due to the pressure their enormous
height put on their bones and joints
that's the whole gravity thing remember
they had to order custom-made clothes
and shoes and even furniture they were
always the center of attention which got
pretty exhausting but the worst thing
was that their bodies couldn't take the
pressure very long most of these giants
died in their 20s
bonus the largest living thing on earth
we've mentioned some jaw-dropping giants
in today's video but the largest living
thing on our planet is neither an animal
nor a plant that gold medal goes to the
honey fungus you can find this parasitic
fungus dwelling in the Blue Mountains of
Oregon yes it is alive and its body
stretches 2.4 miles across now that's
what I call a humongous fungus have you
ever seen any of the tallest or longest
life forms that made it on today's list
if not which one would you like to meet
tell us in the comments below if you
found this video interesting go ahead
and give it a like and share it with
your friends subscribe for more
entertaining videos like this one and
we'll see you next time on the bright
side of life